Safari is making things more complicated,
a little bit.
So, I'm not saying this negatively.
So they have a reason for
that and the reason is privacy.
So, because we already mentioned
that on most browsers,
storage is per origin or eTLD+1, okay?
So, that's, let's say,
Chromium, and Firefox.
So, Chromium is per machine, and
this is a spoiler for a future slide,
so, Chromium is per machine,
on Firefox is per ETLD+1.
On Safari, okay, it's different.
So, let me show you directly
what's going on here.
So, let's say you have search.example.com,
okay?
And then you have another website.
It can be blog.sample, it can be a
completely different page with an iframe.
And the iframe points to search.example.
So, in here, the yellow parts, am
talking about two different navigations.
Okay, they can be two different
tabs in your browser, but
one is with an iframe and
the other one is a full screen navigation.
So on the standard browsers like Chrome
and Firefox, they are sharing the storage.
So search.example.com, can access the same
storage on both situations, okay?
And the thing that, because, you know
an iframe is like an embedded window,
okay, so it feels like natural.
Yeah, it's the same domain,
we will get the same data.
Well, Safari or WebKit actually
decided to make a partition
on these cases to avoid fingerprinting and
increase privacy.
How does it look like?
Like this, they're creating a partition,
what's a partition?
So in this case,
search.example.com has one storage,
search.example.com has an iframe
of blog.example.com has
a different storage, that's a partition.
And if you have search.example.com
on an iframe on a third website,
there will be a different partition.
So the idea here is that
search.example.com,
when it's with an iframe cannot
share data from its parent,
that sometimes has to do
with fingerprinting, okay?
Because an iframe can sometimes can know
things about its parent origin, okay?
So, for example,
what's the use case for this?
Ads, ads are typically iframes today.
So the idea of Safari is to
reduce fingerprinting from
ad companies, make sense?
So if your web app will
never appear in an iframe,
you forget about partitions,
they don't exist.
But if your web app will appear
within an iframe in another origin,
have in mind that that's a partition.
So if you store data here,
it won't be appear here.
Even if it's the same web app in
the same origin, okay, makes sense?
If you wanna read more about that,
in the WebKit blog there is a whole
article talking about partitions.
If you search about partitions,
you will find more information about this.
So then we have, Chrome is using origin,
Firefox is using eTLD+1 groups and
WebKit is using partitions.
So, maybe an hour ago you are not
thinking that we will cover this.
So because most developers
sometimes don't think about this.
So sorry, that's simple, right?
All right, well,
no it's not so simple, okay?
We have a lot of quirks, things that
might change how data storage work.